---
title: Revenue
date: 2024-07-8 12:55:00 +/-TTTT
categories: [NOMA, DEFI]
tags: [alm, amm, uniswap, clmm]
mermaid: true
math: true
---

Protocol owned liquidity (POL) refers to the liquidity that is directly controlled and managed by the Noma protocol itself. Unlike traditional decentralized finance (DeFi) systems that rely solely on user-provided liquidity, POL ensures that the protocol has a substantial and stable liquidity reserve, enhancing its resilience and operational integrity.

## Revenue Stream
The Noma protocol generates revenue through multiple channels, each contributing to the protocol’s financial health and long-term sustainability:

### Liquidity Provisioning
- **Mechanism:** \
The protocol earns fees by providing liquidity on Uniswap V3.
- **Impact:** \
Ensures a steady flow of income from trading fees, enhancing the protocol's liquidity reserves.

### Credit Facility
- **Mechanism:** \
Users can take out loans by collateralizing their $NOMA tokens at the floor price. A non-recurring service fee is charged upfront.
- **Impact:** \
Generates revenue from loan fees while maintaining 100% capital efficiency. Loans are secured by the protocol's ETH reserves, with no risk of liquidation but with collateral burning if not repaid.

## Liquidity Rebalancing Fees
- **Impact:**\
The protocol reallocates reserves from the discovery position to the floor and anchor positions whenever the sweep() function is executed.
- **Mechanism:** \
These reallocated reserves contribute towards increasing the Baseline Liquidity Value (BLV) of the protocol.

### Premium Calculation Formula

Given the parameters:

- `tickLower`: The lower bound of the tick range.
- `tickUpper`: The upper bound of the tick range.
- `liquidity`: The amount of liquidity.
- `expiration`: The expiration time in seconds.
- `currentPrice`: The current price (retrieved from the `getCurrentPrice()` function).
- `block.timestamp`: The current block timestamp.

The premium is calculated as follows:

1. Calculate the tick range: \

    $$\begin{equation} \text{tickRange} = \text{tickUpper} - \text{tickLower} \end{equation}$$


2. Calculate the time to expiry:

    $$\begin{equation}\text{timeToExpiry} = \text{expiration} - \text{block.timestamp}\end{equation}$$

3. Calculate the initial premium:

    $$\begin{equation}
    \text{initialPremium} = \left( \frac{\text{liquidity} \times \text{tickRange} \times \text{timeToExpiry} \times \text{currentPrice}}{1e18 \times 86400} \right)
    \end{equation}$$
   
5. Add a minimum premium to prevent extremely low values:

    $$\begin{equation}   \text{premium} = \text{initialPremium} + 0.001\end{equation}$$

Where:
- `1e18` is a scaling factor to adjust for token decimal precision.
- `86400` is the number of seconds in a day.
- `0.001` tokens is the minimum premium added.
